[SYCL] Improve range reduction performance on CPU (#6164)
intel/llvm: sycl/doc/EnvironmentVariables.md

| `SYCL_ENABLE_DEFAULT_CONTEXTS` | '1' or '0' | Enable ('1') or disable ('0') creation of default platform contexts in SYCL runtime. The default context for each platform contains all devices in the platform. Refer to [Platform Default Contexts](extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_default_context.asciidoc) extension to learn more. Enabled by default on Linux and disabled on Windows. |
| `SYCL_RT_WARNING_LEVEL` | Positive integer | The higher warning level is used the more warnings and performance hints the runtime library may print. Default value is '0', which means no warning/hint messages from the runtime library are allowed. The value '1' enables performance warnings from device runtime/codegen. The values greater than 1 are reserved for future use. |
| `SYCL_USM_HOSTPTR_IMPORT` | Integer | Enable by specifying non-zero value. Buffers created with a host pointer will result in host data promotion to USM, improving data transfer performance. To use this feature, also set SYCL_HOST_UNIFIED_MEMORY=1. |

> | `SYCL_REDUCTION_PREFERRED_WORKGROUP_SIZE_CPU` | Positive integer | Controls the preferred work-group size for reductions on CPU. If `info::device::max_work_group_size` on a device on which a reduction is being enqueued on is less than the value of this environment variable, that value is used instead. If this environment variable is set to 0 or an invalid value, a `sycl::exception` with `sycl::errc::invalid` is thrown during submission of the kernel with a reduction on CPU. If this is unset the preferred work-group size for reductions on CPU is implementation defined. |

Reviewer: Should we have one env var SYCL_REDUCTION_PREFERRED_WORKGROUP_SIZE with values format similar to SYCL_DEVICE_FILTER instead of 3 separate ones?

Reviewer 2: I have made it a single (`SYCL_REDUCTION_PREFERRED_WORKGROUP_SIZE`) env var with a similar syntax to `SYCL_DEVICE_FILTER`. Is this similar to what you had in mind?

> | `SYCL_REDUCTION_MAX_WORKGROUP_SIZE_CPU` | Positive integer | Controls the maximum work-group size for reductions on CPU. If `info::device::max_work_group_size` on a device on which a reduction is being enqueued on is less than the value of this environment variable, that value is used instead. If this environment variable is set to 0 or an invalid value, a `sycl::exception` with `sycl::errc::invalid` is thrown during submission of the kernel with a reduction on CPU. If this is unset the maxiumum work-group size for reductions on CPU is implementation defined. |
> | `SYCL_REDUCTION_MAX_WORKGROUP_SIZE_GPU` | Positive integer | Controls the maximum work-group size for reductions on GPU. If `info::device::max_work_group_size` on a device on which a reduction is being enqueued on is less than the value of this environment variable, that value is used instead. If this environment variable is set to 0 or an invalid value, a `sycl::exception` with `sycl::errc::invalid` is thrown during submission of the kernel with a reduction on GPU. If this is unset the maxiumum work-group size for reductions on GPU is implementation defined. |
> | `SYCL_REDUCTION_MAX_WORKGROUP_SIZE_ACC` | Positive integer | Controls the maximum work-group size for reductions on accelerators. If `info::device::max_work_group_size` on a device on which a reduction is being enqueued on is less than the value of this environment variable, that value is used instead. If this environment variable is set to 0 or an invalid value, a `sycl::exception` with `sycl::errc::invalid` is thrown during submission of the kernel with a reduction on accelerator. If this is unset the maxiumum work-group size for reductions on accelerators is implementation defined. |

Reviewer 3: misprint: 'maxiumum'.

```suggestion
| `SYCL_REDUCTION_MAX_WORKGROUP_SIZE_CPU` | Positive integer | Controls the maximum work-group size for reductions on CPU. If `info::device::max_work_group_size` on a device on which a reduction is being enqueued on is less than the value of this environment variable, that value is used instead. If this environment variable is set to 0 or a negative  value, a `sycl::exception` with `sycl::errc::invalid` is thrown during submission of the kernel with a reduction on CPU. If this is unset the maximum work-group size for reductions on CPU is implementation defined. |
| `SYCL_REDUCTION_MAX_WORKGROUP_SIZE_GPU` | Positive integer | Controls the maximum work-group size for reductions on GPU. If `info::device::max_work_group_size` on a device on which a reduction is being enqueued on is less than the value of this environment variable, that value is used instead. If this environment variable is set to 0 or a negative value, a `sycl::exception` with `sycl::errc::invalid` is thrown during submission of the kernel with a reduction on GPU. If this is unset the maximum work-group size for reductions on GPU is implementation defined. |
| `SYCL_REDUCTION_MAX_WORKGROUP_SIZE_ACC` | Positive integer | Controls the maximum work-group size for reductions on accelerators. If `info::device::max_work_group_size` on a device on which a reduction is being enqueued on is less than the value of this environment variable, that value is used instead. If this environment variable is set to 0 or a negative value, a `sycl::exception` with `sycl::errc::invalid` is thrown during submission of the kernel with a reduction on accelerator. If this is unset the maximum work-group size for reductions on accelerators is implementation defined. |
```

Reviewer 2: I have fixed the typo, but the intention of "an invalid" is to both include negative numbers and bogus values, for example if someone sets one of these to something that is not a number.

Reviewer 3: Right, Thank you!

If `info::device::max_work_group_size` on a device on which a reduction is being enqueued is less than the value specified by a configuration in this environment variable, the value of `info::device::max_work_group_size` on that device is used instead.

A `sycl::exception` with `sycl::errc::invalid` is thrown during submission of a reduction kernel in the following cases:
- If the specified device type in any configuration is not one of the valid values.
- If the specified preferred work-group size in any configuration is not a valid integer.
- If the specified preferred work-group size in any configuration is not an integer value larger than 0.
- If any configuration does not have the `:` delimiter.

If this environment variable is not set, the preferred work-group size for reductions is implementation defined.

> Note that conflicting configuration tuples in the same list will favor the last entry. For example, a list `cpu:32,gpu:32,cpu:16` will set the preferred work-group size of reductions to 32 for GPUs and 16 for CPUs. This also applies to `*`, for example `cpu:32,*:16` sets the preferred work-group size of reductions on all devices to 16, while `*:16,cpu:32` sets the preferred work-group size of reductions on all other devices devices than CPUs to 16 and to 32 for CPUs.

Reviewer 3: "devices devices"
```suggestion
Note that conflicting configuration tuples in the same list will favor the last entry. For example, a list `cpu:32,gpu:32,cpu:16` will set the preferred work-group size of reductions to 32 for GPUs and 16 for CPUs. This also applies to `*`, for example `cpu:32,*:16` sets the preferred work-group size of reductions on all devices to 16, while `*:16,cpu:32` sets the preferred work-group size of reductions to 32 on CPUs and to 16 on all other devices.
```
